README.md, before:

# Patent Scraper

A powerful set of Python tools for downloading patents from Google Patents, focused on chemistry, pharmaceutical, and scientific patents without requiring any API keys.

## Features

- **Topic-Based Patent Extraction**: Search and extract multiple patents based on topics
- **Direct Patent ID Downloads**: Download specific patents by their IDs (most reliable method)
- **Multiple Download Methods**: Both simple requests-based and robust Selenium-based downloaders
- **PDF and HTML Extraction**: Get patents in PDF format when available, with HTML fallback
- **Duplicate Detection**: Smart handling of patent variants with the same base ID
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Detailed logs and debugging information
- **Command-Line Interface**: Easy to use in scripts and automation workflows

## Examples of Topics You Can Search

The script has been tested successfully with various scientific and technical topics including:
- Ammonia synthesis
- Vaccines
- Drug delivery
- Catalytic converters
- Polymer composites
- Antibiotics
- Carbon capture

## Requirements

- Python 3.6+
- Required Python packages (install using `pip install -r requirements.txt`):
  ```
  requests
  beautifulsoup4
  selenium
  urllib3
  ```
- For the Selenium-based downloader:
  - Google Chrome browser
  - ChromeDriver (matching your Chrome version)

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/GrennMilo/PatentsScaper.git
   cd PatentsScaper
   ```

2. Install required packages:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Ensure Chrome and ChromeDriver are installed for Selenium functionality

## Usage

### Topic-Based Extraction and Download (Recommended)

The most powerful approach is to use the topic extractor to search, extract, and download patents in one go:

```bash
python topic_patent_extractor.py "ammonia synthesis" --max 30 --visible --debug
```

This will:
1. Search for patents related to "ammonia synthesis"
2. Extract up to 30 patent IDs
3. Download each patent PDF
4. Provide detailed logs and save debugging information

Recent successful searches include:
- `python topic_patent_extractor.py "vaccines" --max 10 --visible --debug`
- `python topic_patent_extractor.py "ammonia" --max 15 --visible --debug`

### Downloading by Patent ID (Most Reliable Method)

For specific patents, use the patent ID directly:

```bash
python download_patents.py --patent-id US9370745B2 --debug
```

For better visibility during the process:

```bash
python selenium_patent_downloader.py --patent-id US10953088B2 --visible
```

### Different Downloader Scripts

This repository contains three main scripts:

1. **topic_patent_extractor.py** - Most comprehensive tool for topic searching and downloading
   ```
   python topic_patent_extractor.py "drug delivery" --max 20
   ```

2. **selenium_patent_downloader.py** - Robust downloader that handles JavaScript
   ```
   python selenium_patent_downloader.py "catalytic converter" --max 5
   ```

3. **patent_downloader.py** - Simple requests-based downloader (limited functionality)
   ```
   python patent_downloader.py --patent-id US10584047B2
   ```

4. **download_patents.py** - Wrapper script that combines the above tools
   ```
   python download_patents.py --patent-id US11833153B2
   ```

## Advanced Options

### Debugging Support

Enable debugging to get detailed information about the download process:

```bash
python topic_patent_extractor.py "carbon capture" --debug
```

With debugging enabled, the scripts will:
- Save screenshots of each step (with Selenium)
- Store HTML page sources
- Generate detailed logs
- Create JSON records of download status
- Help identify issues with searches or downloads

### Browser Visibility

When using Selenium-based downloaders, you can watch the browser in action:

```bash
python selenium_patent_downloader.py "antibiotics" --visible
```

## Command Line Arguments for Topic Patent Extractor

| Argument | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| `topic` | Topic to search for patents | | Yes |
| `--max` | Maximum number of patents to extract and download | 10 | No |
| `--output` | Output directory for downloaded patents | "patents" | No |
| `--visible` | Run Chrome in visible mode | False | No |
| `--debug` | Enable debug mode | False | No |

## Command Line Arguments for Individual Patent Tools

| Argument | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| `query` | Search query for patents | | Yes (unless using `--patent-id`) |
| `--max` | Maximum number of patents to download | 10 | No |
| `--output` | Output directory for patents | "patents" | No |
| `--language` | Language for patents | "en" | No |
| `--visible` | (Selenium only) Run Chrome in visible mode | False | No |
| `--patent-id` | Download a specific patent by ID | | No |
| `--debug` | Enable debug mode | False | No |

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues and Solutions

1. **No patents found for search query**
   - **Cause**: Google Patents uses complex JavaScript that is difficult to scrape
   - **Solution**: Try using a more specific search term or use direct patent IDs

2. **Browser closes unexpectedly**
   - **Cause**: Session timeout or Chrome/ChromeDriver compatibility issues
   - **Solution**: Update Chrome and ChromeDriver to matching versions and use the `--visible` flag to monitor the process

3. **PDF downloads fail**
   - **Cause**: Patent might not have a PDF available or URL structure changed
   - **Solution**: The script will automatically save the HTML version as fallback

4. **Script crashes with Selenium errors**
   - **Cause**: Element not found due to page structure changes
   - **Solution**: Use the `--debug` flag to save screenshots and HTML for analysis

### Tips for Improved Results

1. **Use specific search terms**
   - More specific queries yield better results (e.g., "ammonia synthesis catalyst" vs just "ammonia")

2. **Prefer direct patent IDs**
   - When possible, search for patents manually first, then use their IDs with `--patent-id`

3. **Check debug information**
   - Enable `--debug` and examine screenshots in the `patents/debug` directory

4. **Handle rate limiting**
   - If you encounter 429 errors, add delays between downloads with the `--delay` option

## Project Structure

```
PatentsScaper/
├── topic_patent_extractor.py      # Main topic-based search and download tool
├── selenium_patent_downloader.py  # Selenium-based patent downloader
├── patent_downloader.py           # Simple requests-based downloader
├── download_patents.py            # Wrapper script for easy usage
├── requirements.txt               # Python dependencies
├── .gitignore                     # Git ignore configuration
├── README.md                      # This documentation
└── patents/                       # Output directory for patents
    └── .gitkeep                   # Placeholder to maintain directory structure
```

## License

MIT License

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to submit pull requests or open issues to improve the functionality.

## Acknowledgements

This tool was developed to help researchers download chemistry and pharmaceutical patents from Google Patents without requiring API keys. While Google Patents' structure as a single-page application presents challenges for automated extraction, this tool provides multiple approaches to maximize success rates.

Commit message:

Update README to document descriptive filename feature

README.md, after:

# Patent Scraper

A powerful set of Python tools for downloading patents from Google Patents, focused on chemistry, pharmaceutical, and scientific patents without requiring any API keys.

## Features

- **Topic-Based Patent Extraction**: Search and extract multiple patents based on topics
- **Direct Patent ID Downloads**: Download specific patents by their IDs (most reliable method)
- **Multiple Download Methods**: Both simple requests-based and robust Selenium-based downloaders
- **PDF and HTML Extraction**: Get patents in PDF format when available, with HTML fallback
- **Descriptive Filenames**: Files saved with both patent ID and title for easy identification
- **Duplicate Detection**: Smart handling of patent variants with the same base ID
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Detailed logs and debugging information
- **Command-Line Interface**: Easy to use in scripts and automation workflows

## Examples of Topics You Can Search

The script has been tested successfully with various scientific and technical topics including:
- Ammonia synthesis
- Vaccines
- Drug delivery
- Catalytic converters
- Polymer composites
- Antibiotics
- Carbon capture

## Requirements

- Python 3.6+
- Required Python packages (install using `pip install -r requirements.txt`):
  ```
  requests
  beautifulsoup4
  selenium
  urllib3
  ```
- For the Selenium-based downloader:
  - Google Chrome browser
  - ChromeDriver (matching your Chrome version)

## Installation

1. Clone this repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/GrennMilo/PatentsScaper.git
   cd PatentsScaper
   ```

2. Install required packages:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Ensure Chrome and ChromeDriver are installed for Selenium functionality

## Usage

### Topic-Based Extraction and Download (Recommended)

The most powerful approach is to use the topic extractor to search, extract, and download patents in one go:

```bash
python topic_patent_extractor.py "ammonia synthesis" --max 30 --visible --debug
```

This will:
1. Search for patents related to "ammonia synthesis"
2. Extract up to 30 patent IDs
3. Download each patent PDF with filename format: `PATENT_ID_Title_Of_The_Patent.pdf`
4. Provide detailed logs and save debugging information

Recent successful searches include:
- `python topic_patent_extractor.py "vaccines" --max 10 --visible --debug`
- `python topic_patent_extractor.py "ammonia" --max 15 --visible --debug`

### Downloading by Patent ID (Most Reliable Method)

For specific patents, use the patent ID directly:

```bash
python download_patents.py --patent-id US9370745B2 --debug
```

For better visibility during the process:

```bash
python selenium_patent_downloader.py --patent-id US10953088B2 --visible
```

### Different Downloader Scripts

This repository contains three main scripts:

1. **topic_patent_extractor.py** - Most comprehensive tool for topic searching and downloading
   ```
   python topic_patent_extractor.py "drug delivery" --max 20
   ```

2. **selenium_patent_downloader.py** - Robust downloader that handles JavaScript
   ```
   python selenium_patent_downloader.py "catalytic converter" --max 5
   ```

3. **patent_downloader.py** - Simple requests-based downloader (limited functionality)
   ```
   python patent_downloader.py --patent-id US10584047B2
   ```

4. **download_patents.py** - Wrapper script that combines the above tools
   ```
   python download_patents.py --patent-id US11833153B2
   ```

## Advanced Options

### Improved Filenames

All downloaded patents are saved using both the patent ID and title in the filename:

```
US10953088B2_Vaccine_compositions_for_porcine_epidemic_diarrhea_virus_and_porcine_deltacoronavirus.pdf
```

Benefits:
- Instantly identify a patent's subject from the filename
- Maintain proper organization and searchability
- Preserve the unique patent ID for reference
- Automatically sanitized to remove invalid characters

### Debugging Support

Enable debugging to get detailed information about the download process:

```bash
python topic_patent_extractor.py "carbon capture" --debug
```

With debugging enabled, the scripts will:
- Save screenshots of each step (with Selenium)
- Store HTML page sources
- Generate detailed logs
- Create JSON records of download status
- Help identify issues with searches or downloads

### Browser Visibility

When using Selenium-based downloaders, you can watch the browser in action:

```bash
python selenium_patent_downloader.py "antibiotics" --visible
```

## Command Line Arguments for Topic Patent Extractor

| Argument | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| `topic` | Topic to search for patents | | Yes |
| `--max` | Maximum number of patents to extract and download | 10 | No |
| `--output` | Output directory for downloaded patents | "patents" | No |
| `--visible` | Run Chrome in visible mode | False | No |
| `--debug` | Enable debug mode | False | No |

## Command Line Arguments for Individual Patent Tools

| Argument | Description | Default | Required |
|----------|-------------|---------|----------|
| `query` | Search query for patents | | Yes (unless using `--patent-id`) |
| `--max` | Maximum number of patents to download | 10 | No |
| `--output` | Output directory for patents | "patents" | No |
| `--language` | Language for patents | "en" | No |
| `--visible` | (Selenium only) Run Chrome in visible mode | False | No |
| `--patent-id` | Download a specific patent by ID | | No |
| `--debug` | Enable debug mode | False | No |

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues and Solutions

1. **No patents found for search query**
   - **Cause**: Google Patents uses complex JavaScript that is difficult to scrape
   - **Solution**: Try using a more specific search term or use direct patent IDs

2. **Browser closes unexpectedly**
   - **Cause**: Session timeout or Chrome/ChromeDriver compatibility issues
   - **Solution**: Update Chrome and ChromeDriver to matching versions and use the `--visible` flag to monitor the process

3. **PDF downloads fail**
   - **Cause**: Patent might not have a PDF available or URL structure changed
   - **Solution**: The script will automatically save the HTML version as fallback

4. **Script crashes with Selenium errors**
   - **Cause**: Element not found due to page structure changes
   - **Solution**: Use the `--debug` flag to save screenshots and HTML for analysis

### Tips for Improved Results

1. **Use specific search terms**
   - More specific queries yield better results (e.g., "ammonia synthesis catalyst" vs just "ammonia")

2. **Prefer direct patent IDs**
   - When possible, search for patents manually first, then use their IDs with `--patent-id`

3. **Check debug information**
   - Enable `--debug` and examine screenshots in the `patents/debug` directory

4. **Handle rate limiting**
   - If you encounter 429 errors, add delays between downloads with the `--delay` option

## Project Structure

```
PatentsScaper/
├── topic_patent_extractor.py      # Main topic-based search and download tool
├── selenium_patent_downloader.py  # Selenium-based patent downloader
├── patent_downloader.py           # Simple requests-based downloader
├── download_patents.py            # Wrapper script for easy usage
├── requirements.txt               # Python dependencies
├── .gitignore                     # Git ignore configuration
├── README.md                      # This documentation
└── patents/                       # Output directory for patents
    └── .gitkeep                   # Placeholder to maintain directory structure
```

## License

MIT License

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to submit pull requests or open issues to improve the functionality.

## Acknowledgements

This tool was developed to help researchers download chemistry and pharmaceutical patents from Google Patents without requiring API keys. While Google Patents' structure as a single-page application presents challenges for automated extraction, this tool provides multiple approaches to maximize success rates.
